Hello, everyone, and welcome to the first video of
lesson one where we're going to talk about the DragonBoard 410c,
its layout, and all of its features.
So as you can see here,
we have a picture of the 96Boards Consumer Edition standard size footprint.
This specification is what is used or what was used to design the DragonBoard 410c.
If you focus on the schematic and look at it closely,
you can see a variety of components that come standard on this footprint, such as,
if you look at the bottom side,
you'll see some USB ports,
maybe a micro USB port, HDMI,
SD card slot, some headers,
and then a lot of empty space.
This allowed for the makers of the DragonBoard to throw on a variety of
components that accent their board using the 96Boards specification,
such as a bunch of these components we're going to look at right now.
So in this slide, you can actually see
the components populated on the DragonBoard itself.
They're all nicely numbered,
take some time to read through all the components,
you can see the Snapdragon 410e chipset said on the DragonBoard.
That's basically the APQ8016,
as we call it, internally within Qualcomm.
And one of the things we did at Qualcomm was identified
that 410e chipset as extended life.
So now, it's supported for 10 years for IoT devices, for the IoT segment.
And you can see all the other components there,
you can see the HDMI cables,
you can see the USB connectors, micro USB connectors,
you can see the Wi-Fi/GPS chipsets,
the antennas, the power connectors,
low speed and high speed expansion headers,
of course, and SD card connectors.
Very interesting kind of tidbit on the DragonBoard 410c.
I've heard it referred to as,
kind of a Android phone without the screen, right?
And this is kind of what people talk about and something
Rajon also didn't point out here yet,
but there are some buttons there as well.
You have a volume low,
a volume high and a power button.
These buttons, if you were running Android on your device,
would basically serve as the Android buttons on your phone, which is kind of cool.
Another cool thing about Qualcomm Snapdragon 410e chipset,
like Rajon said, it is extended life 10 years.
So for those of you who are going to be developing
long life cycle or long term development plans,
if you have some long term development plans,
this is a great chipset to choose.
One of the other things we would like to point out is on the picture that you see,
it's basically not shielded.
You can see all the components which are exposed for the picture to make it pretty.
But the actual board that you will have in your hands,
the APQ8016 chipset which
is a sample like 410e chipset is actually shielded with a silver shield,
so you won't actually be able to visibly see the chipset on it,
but you can have the picture.
And when we open our DragonBoards in the next video,
you'll get to see what we're talking about.
So here, another picture,
this is the backside of the DragonBoard.
We'd like to point out just the dip switches.
Some interesting thing here as well,
is that if you didn't notice on the other side,
there isn't a heat sink.
This little gold, kind
of the square gold piece that is around the chips on the back there,
that is actually a built in heat sink.
So, very interesting choice there for the DragonBoard 410c.
And later on, we'll go into the dip switches
and different boot modes later on in the course.
Here, we'd like to take some time to point out
the different I/O capabilities that are built in to the 96Boards specification,
which the DragonBoard follows.
On the left side, you're going to see the low speed expansion header,
which we will outline later in the course.
And on the right side,
you're going to see the high speed expansion header.
This basically gives any developer,
any person who chooses to use the DragonBoard 410c,
a plethora of I/O,
pretty much the sky's the limit when it comes
to what you would like to interact within the environment.
So, take a second, explore the headers,
you have GPIO, I2Cs, SPIs.
Of course, your voltage outputs and ground, you need those.
And then on the high speed expansion header come a lot more complex I/O which we will
touch on later when we talk about a variety of add-ons to the board.
For fun, we included some of these colorful diagrams.
So basically, what you were seeing in the last slide with the pin-outs,
this is a fun version of the pin-outs.
These are available for you on the 96Boards DragonBoard
landing page and you can see more if you visit the URL that's available on the slide.
Yes. And we'll talk about this a little bit more in detail as we go down the course.
But essentially, based on the operating system you use,
you might use different pin numbers for using those GPIOs,
and the slide that you have right here kind of
shows that one is for Android and one is for Debian.
And you will be using different pin numbers just to code and use your GPIOs.
Great.
So, I think it's time that we pause the video,
reflect a minute on what was discussed around the DragonBoard.
Maybe if you want to rewind,
explore a little bit about what we talked about,
with regard to the components,
the 96Boards specification which is available on the 96Boards.org website,
or simply poke around some extracurricular documentation around the DragonBoard,
you can visit any of these URLs up here.
In the next video, we're going to be unboxing these DragonBoards
and talking a little bit more in-depth about
the components that we just listed out on the slides.